# Screen To Table

This was made as a final project for CS 4300: Language and Information (Spring 2021). See the final product here: https://screentotable.herokuapp.com

### Baseline method description
Our current baseline method is to extract food words from movie scripts (currently wordnets-based) and compute cosine similarities between each set of food words and recipes to generate a similarity matrix. The output is generated by indexing into the similarity matrix based on query id, retrieving the recipe array, sorting based on similarity, and returning the top ten results. 

## Abstract
The goal of our app is to recommend recipes based on movies (inspired by popular Youtube series Binging with Babish). Have you ever seen food in a movie and felt your mouth begin to water? Have you ever wanted to try the food you see on TV? This app can make that dream a reality. Users can input the movie they’re watching and our app will give them a list of recipes that either match the featured dish or provide something similar, allowing them to take a dish from screen to table. This is a great way for indecisive users to decide what to make for dinner!

The input to our app will include media titles such as the names of movies. The inputs may also include details about desired recipes such as ingredients to exclude, favored cuisines, and allergies or other preferences. Another potential input would be a “Surprise Me” button that outputs both a movie/TV show and a recipe, for those users interested in dinner and a show. 

In response to these inputs, the system will output information for the user to incorporate into their cooking process. This includes ingredients, recipes that contain ingredients mentioned in the show or movie, recipes for dishes directly mentioned in the show or movie, and recommended foods. A stretch goal for the app which would involve expanding the scope of the data would be recommending restaurants at which users can find these dishes. 

Use cases for our app will be most common among avid watchers of film or television who are also foodies, but we expect anyone with an interest in watching media and eating food to find a use for our app. A lot of movies feature interesting and impressive culinary works, either as simple set decoration or as a more meaningful way of expressing the plot and themes. Any fans of food or entertainment would benefit from being able to look up specific dishes from their favorite films or series as well as how to recreate them. In addition, people looking to pair a dinner + movie experience will be able to use this app to fill in whichever part they’re missing, forming a fun and surprising experience and perhaps a premise for social events. 
  Our data sources will primarily be public websites and databases. We plan to use or create recipe web scraping tools and we would like to experiment with webscraping different well-known recipe websites, as well as databases available online like https://www.kaggle.com/shuyangli94/food-com-recipes-and-user-interactions?select=PP_recipes.csv. There seems to be a format called hrecipe that would make this process a lot easier to extract necessary information: https://opendata.stackexchange.com/questions/4283/open-downloadable-recipe-database
We also plan on scraping websites like https://imsdb.com/ and http://www.springfieldspringfield.co.uk/ for TV and movie scripts.

The information retrieval component of our app will involve retrieving recipes that are featured in movies and TV shows. To do this, we will have to retrieve specific food words or cuisines from the movie and TV show summary or script. We will match these food words against names of recipes, and also query for recipes similar to it. We may also use these to query for certain ingredients, which we can then use to search for recipes that consist of these specific ingredients.

The social component of our app will involve users giving feedback based on how relevant each of the system’s outputs was to the input movie or TV show query and how well it fit their needs. This rating system may be something on a scale of 5 stars or even just a “thumbs up” or “thumbs down” button. Users may also upload their own recipes that were inspired by movies or TV shows. Based on discussion with our TA, we’ll incorporate the social component of existing recipe ratings to rank the results given when a user inputs a movie, so that in the case where we have multiple recipes which are relevant to a particular movie, the user will be given the one that social feedback decided was more “popular”. We are also thinking of incorporating a machine learning component which would involve training a model to identify and extract ingredients, dishes, and other food-related or culinary words within a summary or script of a particular movie or TV show episode. Additionally, we plan on recommending other recipes based on similar movies to the query, or recommending other movie-recipe pairings based on certain recipes a user likes. As a reach goal, we also would like to allow users to input multiple movies as one query for recipes and have users specify food preferences as well as allergies.
